---
layout: post
title: Rsync
tags: [tools]
---

## 安装

Install the [rsync](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/?name=rsync) package using [pacman](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Pacman):
    
    # pacman -S rsync
    

## 使用方法

For more examples, search the [Community Contributions](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewforum.php?id=27) and [General Programming](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewforum.php?id=33) forums.

### 作为 cp 的替代

rsync can be used as an advanced cp alternative, especially for copying larger files:
    
    $ rsync -P source destination
    

The `-P` option is the same as `--partial --progress`, which keeps partially transferred files and shows a progress bar during transfer.

You may want to use the `-r --recursive` option to recurse into directories, or the `-R` option for using relative path names (recreating entire folder hierarchy on the destination folder).

### 作为备份工具

The rsync protocol can easily be used for backups, only transferring files that have changed since the last backup. This section describes a very simple scheduled backup script using rsync, typically used for copying to removable media. For a more thorough example, see [Full system backup with rsync](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Full_system_backup_with_rsync).

#### 自动备份

For the sake of this example, the script is created in the `/etc/cron.daily` directory, and will be run on a daily basis if a cron [daemon](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Daemon) is installed and properly configured. Configuring and using [cron](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Cron) is outside the scope of this article.

First, create a script containing the appropriate command options:
    
    /etc/cron.daily/backup
    
    #!/bin/bash
    rsync -a --delete /folder/to/backup /location/to/backup &> /dev/null

`-a` 
    indicates that files should be archived, meaning that most of their characteristics are preserved (but **not** ACLs, hard links or extended attributes such as capabilities)
`--delete` 
    means files deleted on the source are to be deleted on the backup aswell

Here, `/folder/to/backup` should be changed to what needs to be backed-up (`/home`, for example) and `/location/to/backup` is where the backup should be saved (`/media/disk`, for instance).

Finally, the script must be executable:
    
    # chmod +x /etc/cron.daily/rsync.backup
    

#### 自动用 SSH 备份

If backing-up to a remote host using [SSH](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/SSH), use this script instead:
    
    /etc/cron.daily/backup
    
    #!/bin/bash
    rsync -a --delete -e ssh /folder/to/backup remoteuser@remotehost:/location/to/backup &> /dev/null

`-e ssh` 
    tells rsync to use SSH
`remoteuser` 
    is the user on the host `remotehost`
`-a` 
    groups all these options `-rlptgoD` (recursive, links, perms, times, group, owner, devices)

#### 自动与 NetworkManager 备份

This script starts a backup when you plugin your wire.

First, create a script containing the appropriate command options:
    
    /etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/backup
    
    #!/bin/bash
    
    if [ x"$2" = "xup" ] ; then
      rsync --force --ignore-errors -a --delete --bwlimit=2000 --files-from=files.rsync /folder/to/backup /location/to/backup
    fi

`-a` 
    group all this options `-rlptgoD` recursive, links, perms, times, group, owner, devices
`--files-from` 
    read the relative path of _/folder/to/backup_ from this file
`--bwlimit` 
    limit I/O bandwidth; KBytes per second

#### Differential backup on a week

This is a useful option of rsync, creating a full backup and a differential backup for each day of a week.

First, create a script containing the appropriate command options:
    
    /etc/cron.daily/backup
    
    #!/bin/bash
    
    DAY=$(date +%A)
    
    if [ -e /location/to/backup/incr/$DAY ] ; then
      rm -fr /location/to/backup/incr/$DAY
    fi
    
    rsync -a --delete --inplace --backup --backup-dir=/location/to/backup/incr/$DAY /folder/to/backup/ /location/to/backup/full/ &> /dev/null

`--inplace` 
    implies `--partial` update destination files in-place

#### 快照备份

The same idea can be used to maintain a tree of snapshots of your files. In other words, a directory with date-ordered copies of the files. The copies are made using hardlinks, which means that only files that did change will occupy space. Generally speaking, this is the idea behind Apple's TimeMachine.

This script implements a simple version of it:
    
    /usr/local/bin/rsnapshot.sh
    
    #!/bin/bash
    
    ## my own rsync-based snapshot-style backup procedure
    ## (cc) marcio rps AT gmail.com
    
    # config vars
    
    SRC="/home/username/files/" #dont forget trailing slash!
    SNAP="/snapshots/username"
    OPTS="-rltgoi --delay-updates --delete --chmod=a-w"
    MINCHANGES=20
    
    # run this process with real low priority
    
    ionice -c 3 -p $$
    renice +12  -p $$
    
    # sync
    
    rsync $OPTS $SRC $SNAP/latest >> $SNAP/rsync.log
    
    # check if enough has changed and if so
    # make a hardlinked copy named as the date
    
    COUNT=$( wc -l $SNAP/rsync.log|cut -d" " -f1 )
    if [ $COUNT -gt $MINCHANGES ] ; then
       DATETAG=$(date +%Y-%m-%d)
       if [ ! -e $SNAP/$DATETAG ] ; then
          cp -al $SNAP/latest $SNAP/$DATETAG
          mv $SNAP/rsync.log $SNAP/$DATETAG
       fi
    fi
    

To make things really, really simple this script can be run out of `/etc/rc.local`.
